_drafts/kashmir-and-ladhak-2.markdown, before:

---
layout: post
title: "K&L: Zoji La to Leh"
cover: ladhak

gallery_prefix:
    "https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/105618576/io.github.nishantjr/images/kashmir-and-ladhak"
gallery:
  zojila:
  - src: "slippers-ofcourse.jpg"
    title: "Real men wear slippers"
    details: "Our shoes were frozen solid, so we wore slippers."
  - src: "i-hate-to-say-goodbye.jpg"
    title: "I hate to say goodbye"
  - src: "eyes-on-the-horizon.jpg"
  - src: "the-land-of-ice-and-snow.jpg"
    title: "The land of Ice and Snow"
  - src: "rolling.jpg"
    title: "All weather cycle gear: Slippers"
  - src: "the-road-ahead.jpg"
  - src: "so-cold.jpg"
  - src: "kick-starting.jpg"
    title: "I don't think you need to kick start a cycle."
  - src: "good-old-rubber-chappals.jpg"
  - src: "the-problem-with-the-himalayas.jpg"
    title: "The problem with the himalayas..."
    details: "is that they're too big. They dont fit in the camera frame.
    Saahil's a speck in the center"
  - src: "yawn-the-view.jpg"
    title: "Yawwwn. Such a boring view"
  - src: "dunno.jpg"
  - src: "moo-cow-moo.jpg"
  - src: "ups-and-downs.jpg"
    title: "There are many ups and downs and the road is rough..."
  - src: "army-cut-road.jpg"
    title: "Cut right through the hills"
  - src: "selfie-2.jpg"
  - src: "the-long-and-winding-road.jpg"
    title: "The long and winding road"
  - src: "so-much-smiling.jpg"
    title: "So much smiling"
  - src: "so-much-more-smiling.jpg"
    title: "So much more smiling"
  - src: "the-fifth-puncture.jpg"
    title: "The Fifth Puncture"
  - src: "kargil-battle-school-visit-again.jpg"
    title: "Kargil Battle School - Visit again"
  - src: "drass-view.jpg"
    title: "Dras view"
  - src: "saahil-dras-view.jpg"
  kargil:
  - src: "kargil-night-photo-building.jpg"
  - src: "kargil-night-photo-silhouette.jpg"
  - src: "goodbye-kargil.jpg"
  - src: "goodbye-kargil-2.jpg"
  - src: "puncture-free.jpg"
  - src: "post-kargil-roads.jpg"
  - src: "post-kargil-roads-2.jpg"
  - src: "post-kargil-roads-3.jpg"
  - src: "military-convoy.jpg"
  - src: "big-rock.jpg"
  - src: "the-tourist-attraction.jpg"
  - src: "but-foods-more-important.jpg"
  - src: "the-mulbek-view.jpg"
  - src: "snowing.jpg"
  - src: "snowing-2.jpg"
  namik-la:
  - src: "010-reached.jpg"
  - src: "020-talking-to-truck-drivers.jpg"
  - src: "030-prayer-flags-wecome-us.jpg"
  - src: "040-selfie-1.jpg"
  - src: "050-selfie-2.jpg"
  - src: "060-saahils-new-friend.jpg"
  - src: "070-saahils-new-friend-2.jpg"
  - src: "080-saahils-new-friend-3.jpg"
  - src: "090-begining-to-decend.jpg"
  - src: "100-are-we-there.jpg"
  - src: "110-everything-the-ligh-touches.jpg"
  - src: "120-julley-kharbu.jpg"
  - src: "130-enquiring-about-lodging.jpg"
  - src: "140-cozy-homestay.jpg"
  - src: "150-cozy-homestay-2.jpg"
  kharbu:
  - src: "010-mountains-being-dramatic.jpg"
  - src: "020-mountains-being-dramatic-2.jpg"
  - src: "030-mountains-being-dramatic-3.jpg"
  - src: "040-saahil-posing-and-cycling.jpg"
  - src: "050-what-more-climbing.jpg"
  - src: "060-fotula-top-is-reached.jpg"
  - src: "070-group-selfie.jpg"
  - src: "080-saahil-weird-face.jpg"
  - src: "085-me-and-my-beau.jpg"
  - src: "090-saahil-on-dramatic-mountian.jpg"
  - src: "100-yay-downhill.jpg"
  - src: "110-looking-at-lamayuru.jpg"
  - src: "120-lamayuru-being-dramatic.jpg"
  - src: "130-lunch-time.jpg"
  - src: "140-flags.jpg"
  - src: "150-nurla-bridge.jpg"
---

We left the warm comfort of the tents at 10 the next morning, wearing slippers
since our shoes had frozen solid! The roads were downhill, but quite damaged by
the winter ice. We patched 5-6 punctures that day, reaching Dras around 5pm.  In
Dras, we had our first taste of Wazwan with the Rogan Josh from the place across
the hotel. We ate, showered and fell asleep by 9:30.

{% include gallery.html gallery='zojila' title='Day 3: Zojila to Dras' %}

Leaving at a late 10:30 again the next day, we met another pair of cyclists -
Amit and Binoy, who had started the day after we left Srinagar. They'd made it
from Sonamarg to Dras over the Zoji La in a day! The road from Dras started of
quite bad and had us afraid of punctures but quickly got better and quite fun.
We'd even set up the Garmin camera, though it ran out of space in a few hours.

Reached Kargil at 2:30 and after a bit of confusion about gadi walas and watch
repair men, got brake pads replaced and tubes fixed (our patches weren't staying
on for too long for some reason - and we were a bit fed up of doing it
ourselves) and ate lunch with Amit and Binoy. We decided to stay the evening in
Kargil and rest for a bit. Ate 'tagger'/'tiger' kebabs and some more Wazwan. 

At Kargil, we'd decided to start being more careful about timings and food - the
last 3 days we'd cycled until we'd had almost no energy. We left the hotel by
830 and were on our way a little past 9. We started off with a puncture and bad
roads but made good time to Mulbhek, reaching there by 2:30. Quickly losing
interest in the Buddha statue carved into the rock, we found a restaurant. Lunch
and 3 cups of chai later, we enquired about guest houses. Nobody was too sure,
but there was a vague idea of a place 10km past the Namik La pass 20km ahead.
It was quite a steep climb up to Namik La but the lunch done its job and we
reached the top by 5:30, Saahil seeing snowfall for the first time. The snow and
wind had gotten quite serious at the top so we pushed of quickly down the sweet
sweet downhill, stopping for chai and directions at Khangral. After unfreezing
our fingers we head down 5km ahead to a guest house at Bod-Kharbu. Find the
Guest house but turns out that there's no one there. Eat maggi and omelette for
dinner again, and are taken to a homestay. And of course, we clean our bikes
have baths and a shave ummm...

{% include gallery.html gallery='kargil' title='Day 5: Kargil to Kharbu' %}
{% include gallery.html gallery='namik-la' title='Day 5: Snow at Namik-La' %}

Left Kharbu by 9 and had eaten two breakfasts by 10: coffee and omelettes at the
Marathi Army Cafe - they serve wada pav, but we went too early; and fresh
heavenly carb-filled aloo parathas. We climbed Fotula top around 2, and reached
Lamayuru soon after. On the last trip we'd Fotula was the farthest point, so
this was all known ground. We ate at one of the guest houses we'd stayed at 2
years ago. Passing Khaltse, our planned stop for the night, we pushed on to
Nurla. At Nurla, the (extremely pretty) resort we'd stayed at the last time was
booked full, and the only other place in town was Rs 6000 a night, but we
managed to find a very comfortable homestay.

{% include gallery.html gallery='kharbu' title='Day 6: Zojila to Dras' %}

From Nurla to Leh was quite uneventful, eating at Basgo, ignoring magnetic hill,
tea at Pathar Sahib Gurudvara. The road of evil, christened 2 years ago was an
extremely long uphill with a bad headwind and dwindling supply of water. It was
now sweet sweet downhill, possibly the fastest road on the whole trip, until the
hall of fame museum. We stopped for a second tea here, and finally made it to
Leh at 7, found a hotel and celebrated by complaining about the WiFi.

The next day we didn't see our cycles - and we didn't miss them. Arranged a car
and walked around Leh a bit. Our driver was quite interesting - he showed up at
3 AM an hour and a half before we were supposed to leave, because he hadn't read
the time right (though that turned out to be a good thing). We reached Dras
half an hour after the road to Zojila closed, but he sweet talked the guard to
let us through. We took some vegetables for Sarjar, and reached Srinagar around
5 - watching 7 days of cycling unwind in 12 hours.

Spent the next day around Srinagar sampling the Wazwan and shopping, and headed
home on the big jet plane.

Commit message:

K&L: Add links at the begining of each part to the other part.

_drafts/kashmir-and-ladhak-2.markdown, after:

---
layout: post
title: "K&L: Zoji La to Leh"
cover: ladhak

gallery_prefix:
    "https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/105618576/io.github.nishantjr/images/kashmir-and-ladhak"
gallery:
  zojila:
  - src: "slippers-ofcourse.jpg"
    title: "Real men wear slippers"
    details: "Our shoes were frozen solid, so we wore slippers."
  - src: "i-hate-to-say-goodbye.jpg"
    title: "I hate to say goodbye"
  - src: "eyes-on-the-horizon.jpg"
  - src: "the-land-of-ice-and-snow.jpg"
    title: "The land of Ice and Snow"
  - src: "rolling.jpg"
    title: "All weather cycle gear: Slippers"
  - src: "the-road-ahead.jpg"
  - src: "so-cold.jpg"
  - src: "kick-starting.jpg"
    title: "I don't think you need to kick start a cycle."
  - src: "good-old-rubber-chappals.jpg"
  - src: "the-problem-with-the-himalayas.jpg"
    title: "The problem with the himalayas..."
    details: "is that they're too big. They dont fit in the camera frame.
    Saahil's a speck in the center"
  - src: "yawn-the-view.jpg"
    title: "Yawwwn. Such a boring view"
  - src: "dunno.jpg"
  - src: "moo-cow-moo.jpg"
  - src: "ups-and-downs.jpg"
    title: "There are many ups and downs and the road is rough..."
  - src: "army-cut-road.jpg"
    title: "Cut right through the hills"
  - src: "selfie-2.jpg"
  - src: "the-long-and-winding-road.jpg"
    title: "The long and winding road"
  - src: "so-much-smiling.jpg"
    title: "So much smiling"
  - src: "so-much-more-smiling.jpg"
    title: "So much more smiling"
  - src: "the-fifth-puncture.jpg"
    title: "The Fifth Puncture"
  - src: "kargil-battle-school-visit-again.jpg"
    title: "Kargil Battle School - Visit again"
  - src: "drass-view.jpg"
    title: "Dras view"
  - src: "saahil-dras-view.jpg"
  kargil:
  - src: "kargil-night-photo-building.jpg"
  - src: "kargil-night-photo-silhouette.jpg"
  - src: "goodbye-kargil.jpg"
  - src: "goodbye-kargil-2.jpg"
  - src: "puncture-free.jpg"
  - src: "post-kargil-roads.jpg"
  - src: "post-kargil-roads-2.jpg"
  - src: "post-kargil-roads-3.jpg"
  - src: "military-convoy.jpg"
  - src: "big-rock.jpg"
  - src: "the-tourist-attraction.jpg"
  - src: "but-foods-more-important.jpg"
  - src: "the-mulbek-view.jpg"
  - src: "snowing.jpg"
  - src: "snowing-2.jpg"
  namik-la:
  - src: "010-reached.jpg"
  - src: "020-talking-to-truck-drivers.jpg"
  - src: "030-prayer-flags-wecome-us.jpg"
  - src: "040-selfie-1.jpg"
  - src: "050-selfie-2.jpg"
  - src: "060-saahils-new-friend.jpg"
  - src: "070-saahils-new-friend-2.jpg"
  - src: "080-saahils-new-friend-3.jpg"
  - src: "090-begining-to-decend.jpg"
  - src: "100-are-we-there.jpg"
  - src: "110-everything-the-ligh-touches.jpg"
  - src: "120-julley-kharbu.jpg"
  - src: "130-enquiring-about-lodging.jpg"
  - src: "140-cozy-homestay.jpg"
  - src: "150-cozy-homestay-2.jpg"
  kharbu:
  - src: "010-mountains-being-dramatic.jpg"
  - src: "020-mountains-being-dramatic-2.jpg"
  - src: "030-mountains-being-dramatic-3.jpg"
  - src: "040-saahil-posing-and-cycling.jpg"
  - src: "050-what-more-climbing.jpg"
  - src: "060-fotula-top-is-reached.jpg"
  - src: "070-group-selfie.jpg"
  - src: "080-saahil-weird-face.jpg"
  - src: "085-me-and-my-beau.jpg"
  - src: "090-saahil-on-dramatic-mountian.jpg"
  - src: "100-yay-downhill.jpg"
  - src: "110-looking-at-lamayuru.jpg"
  - src: "120-lamayuru-being-dramatic.jpg"
  - src: "130-lunch-time.jpg"
  - src: "140-flags.jpg"
  - src: "150-nurla-bridge.jpg"
---

On the way from Ladhak to Srinagar (by taxi) on our [previous cycle trip to
Ladhak]({% post_url 2013-09-13-jullay %}), Saahil casually suggested doing a
cycle ride from Srinagar to Leh. Two years later, we finally got down to it -
and it turned into quite an adventure. This is a continuation of [part
1]({% post_url 2015-10-03-kashmir-and-ladhak-1 %}).
{: .post-narrative}


We left the warm comfort of the tents at 10 the next morning, wearing slippers
since our shoes had frozen solid! The roads were downhill, but quite damaged by
the winter ice. We patched 5-6 punctures that day, reaching Dras around 5pm.  In
Dras, we had our first taste of Wazwan with the Rogan Josh from the place across
the hotel. We ate, showered and fell asleep by 9:30.

{% include gallery.html gallery='zojila' title='Day 3: Zojila to Dras' %}

Leaving at a late 10:30 again the next day, we met another pair of cyclists -
Amit and Binoy, who had started the day after we left Srinagar. They'd made it
from Sonamarg to Dras over the Zoji La in a day! The road from Dras started of
quite bad and had us afraid of punctures but quickly got better and quite fun.
We'd even set up the Garmin camera, though it ran out of space in a few hours.

Reached Kargil at 2:30 and after a bit of confusion about gadi walas and watch
repair men, got brake pads replaced and tubes fixed (our patches weren't staying
on for too long for some reason - and we were a bit fed up of doing it
ourselves) and ate lunch with Amit and Binoy. We decided to stay the evening in
Kargil and rest for a bit. Ate 'tagger'/'tiger' kebabs and some more Wazwan. 

At Kargil, we'd decided to start being more careful about timings and food - the
last 3 days we'd cycled until we'd had almost no energy. We left the hotel by
830 and were on our way a little past 9. We started off with a puncture and bad
roads but made good time to Mulbhek, reaching there by 2:30. Quickly losing
interest in the Buddha statue carved into the rock, we found a restaurant. Lunch
and 3 cups of chai later, we enquired about guest houses. Nobody was too sure,
but there was a vague idea of a place 10km past the Namik La pass 20km ahead.
It was quite a steep climb up to Namik La but the lunch done its job and we
reached the top by 5:30, Saahil seeing snowfall for the first time. The snow and
wind had gotten quite serious at the top so we pushed of quickly down the sweet
sweet downhill, stopping for chai and directions at Khangral. After unfreezing
our fingers we head down 5km ahead to a guest house at Bod-Kharbu. Find the
Guest house but turns out that there's no one there. Eat maggi and omelette for
dinner again, and are taken to a homestay. And of course, we clean our bikes
have baths and a shave ummm...

{% include gallery.html gallery='kargil' title='Day 5: Kargil to Kharbu' %}
{% include gallery.html gallery='namik-la' title='Day 5: Snow at Namik-La' %}

Left Kharbu by 9 and had eaten two breakfasts by 10: coffee and omelettes at the
Marathi Army Cafe - they serve wada pav, but we went too early; and fresh
heavenly carb-filled aloo parathas. We climbed Fotula top around 2, and reached
Lamayuru soon after. On the last trip we'd Fotula was the farthest point, so
this was all known ground. We ate at one of the guest houses we'd stayed at 2
years ago. Passing Khaltse, our planned stop for the night, we pushed on to
Nurla. At Nurla, the (extremely pretty) resort we'd stayed at the last time was
booked full, and the only other place in town was Rs 6000 a night, but we
managed to find a very comfortable homestay.

{% include gallery.html gallery='kharbu' title='Day 6: Zojila to Dras' %}

From Nurla to Leh was quite uneventful, eating at Basgo, ignoring magnetic hill,
tea at Pathar Sahib Gurudvara. The road of evil, christened 2 years ago was an
extremely long uphill with a bad headwind and dwindling supply of water. It was
now sweet sweet downhill, possibly the fastest road on the whole trip, until the
hall of fame museum. We stopped for a second tea here, and finally made it to
Leh at 7, found a hotel and celebrated by complaining about the WiFi.

The next day we didn't see our cycles - and we didn't miss them. Arranged a car
and walked around Leh a bit. Our driver was quite interesting - he showed up at
3 AM an hour and a half before we were supposed to leave, because he hadn't read
the time right (though that turned out to be a good thing). We reached Dras
half an hour after the road to Zojila closed, but he sweet talked the guard to
let us through. We took some vegetables for Sarjar, and reached Srinagar around
5 - watching 7 days of cycling unwind in 12 hours.

Spent the next day around Srinagar sampling the Wazwan and shopping, and headed
home on the big jet plane.
